doc: updating "How to choose a DocumentStore" documentation (#11512)
deepset-ai/haystack: docs-website/docs/concepts/document-store/choosing-a-document-store.mdx

- **In-memory Key-Value Stores** — ultra-low-latency stores with HNSW vector search
- **Vector Index Libraries** — lightweight in-process vector similarity search, no external service
- **Multi-model Databases** — single engine supporting graph, document, and vector data models

Here is an overview of all the integrations currently available, grouped by category:

<ClickableImage src="/img/document-stores-overview.svg" alt="Overview of DocumentStore integrations in Haystack grouped by category: Vector Databases, Search Engines, Relational Databases, Document/NoSQL Databases, In-memory Key-Value Stores, Vector Index Libraries, Multi-model Databases" className="img-light-bg" />

## DocumentStore Integrations Available in Haystack

Haystack integrations come in two tiers. **Core integrations** are built and maintained by the Haystack team — they are tested against every release, follow the same API conventions, and come with full documentation and support. **External integrations** are contributed and maintained by the community; they extend Haystack's reach but are not covered by the core release cycle.

> The tables below list every available integration alongside the key properties you need to choose the right one for your use case: the underlying **Engine Type** gives you a sense of what the database is optimised for; **Open Source** tells you whether you can self-host it; **Async Support** matters for high-throughput pipelines; and **Retrievers** shows which retrieval strategies are available out of the box — BM25 for keyword search, Embedding for semantic search, Hybrid for both, and specialised options such as Sparse Embedding or SQL where supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tables below list every available integration alongside the key properties you need to choose the right one for your use case.
```

I think the attributes are rather easy to understand, so no need for detailed explanation.

Author: Good point! The less text the better, that's my perception

- Lower operational overhead when PostgreSQL is already part of the stack
- Vector search performance is lower than purpose-built databases, but sufficient for many use cases
- Familiar tooling, transactions, and data integrity guarantees of a relational database

**Best for** use cases where documents live alongside structured relational data — e.g. a product catalogue where vector search and SQL JOINs are both needed.

- [AlloyDB](../../document-stores/alloydbdocumentstore.mdx)
- [Oracle](../../document-stores/oracledocumentstore.mdx)
- [PGVector](../../document-stores/pgvectordocumentstore.mdx)
- [Supabase](../../document-stores/supabasedocumentstore.mdx)
- [SingleStore](https://haystack.deepset.ai/integrations/singlestore) (external integration)

## Document / NoSQL Databases

- General-purpose document stores with vector search added on top
- Flexible, schema-less data model suited for heterogeneous document collections
- Horizontal scaling and high availability inherited from the underlying NoSQL engine
- Good choice when the database is already in use and adding a separate vector store is undesirable
- Vector search performance may trail behind purpose-built databases

> **Best for** applications already using MongoDB or Cassandra that want to add RAG capabilities without introducing a new infrastructure component.

Reviewer: We do not mention Cassandra below, and it seems we do not have an integration with it either.

- Astra ([AstraDocumentStore](../../document-stores/astradocumentstore.mdx))
- [MongoDB Atlas](../../document-stores/mongodbatlasdocumentstore.mdx)
- [Couchbase](https://haystack.deepset.ai/integrations/couchbase-document-store) (external integration)

## In-memory Key-Value Stores

- In-memory architecture delivers extremely low read/write latency
- Vector search (HNSW) layered on top of an existing caching infrastructure

> - Ideal when the stack already includes Redis or Valkey as a cache or session store

Reviewer: No integration with Redis either. Can the Valkey integration work with Redis as well?

Author: > No integration with Redis either. Can the Valkey integration work with Redis as well?

I will keep only Valkey, to be safe

- Suited for knowledge graphs or applications with complex entity relationships
- Vector search (HNSW) available alongside graph traversal and document queries
- Smaller community and ecosystem compared to more established categories

**Best for** applications requiring multiple data models in a single engine — e.g. a knowledge graph where entities are connected by relationships and also need vector similarity search.

- [ArcadeDB](../../document-stores/arcadedbdocumentstore.mdx)
- [FalkorDB](../../document-stores/falkordbdocumentstore.mdx)
- [Neo4j](https://haystack.deepset.ai/integrations/neo4j-document-store) (external integration)

## The In-memory Document Store

Haystack ships with an ephemeral document store that relies on pure Python data structures stored in memory, so it doesn't fall into any of the vector database categories above. This special Document Store is ideal for creating quick prototypes with small datasets. It doesn't require any special setup, and it can be used right away without installing additional dependencies.

- [InMemoryDocumentStore](../../document-stores/inmemorydocumentstore.mdx)

## Final Considerations

> It can be very challenging to pick one vector database over another by only looking at pure performance, as even the slightest difference in the benchmark can produce a different leaderboard (for example, some benchmarks test the cloud services while others work on a reference machine). Thinking about including features like filtering or not can bring in a whole new set of complexities that make the comparison even harder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be very challenging to pick one Document Store over another by only looking at pure performance, as even the slightest difference in the benchmark can produce a different leaderboard (for example, some benchmarks test the cloud services while others work on a reference machine). Thinking about including features like filtering or not can bring in a whole new set of complexities that make the comparison even harder.
```

It is a bit misleading. Vector databases are mentioned as one of the categories, so it seems like we are only considering them as a viable option.

Author: right, this was a "bug" left from the old page
